docs/docs/project/ci_cd.md, before:

# CI/CD Runbook

This guide details the Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline for ArqonHPO, managed via GitHub Actions.

## 👋 Quick Reference

| Action | Command / Trigger |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Run Tests Locally** | `cargo test --workspace` |
| **Check MSRV** | `manual check required` (see below) |
| **Fix Formatting** | `cargo fmt --all` |
| **Run Clippy** | `cargo clippy --workspace` |
| **Trigger Dependabot** | Comment `@dependabot rebase` on PR |
| **Cut a Release** | `git tag v0.2.x && git push origin v0.2.x` |

---

## 🏗 Pipeline Architecture

Our pipeline (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) enforces quality gates on every Pull Request and merge to `main`.

### 1. Cross-Platform Rust Matrix
We compile and test on native runners to ensure OS compatibility:
- **Linux** (`ubuntu-latest`)
- **macOS** (`macos-latest`)
- **Windows** (`windows-latest`)

### 2. Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV)
* **Current MSRV:** `1.82.0`
* **Check:** Builds `cargo build` using strict version 1.82 to prevent accidental usage of newer features.
* **Troubleshooting:** If this fails but stable passes, you likely used a new Rust feature or updated a dependency to a version that requires a newer Rust.
    * *Fix:* Downgrade the dependency or pin it (e.g., `criterion = "=0.5.1"`).

### 3. Python Compatibility Matrix
We test bindings against supported Python versions:
- `3.10`
- `3.11`
- `3.12`

### 4. Code Quality & Benchmarks
- **Coverage:** Runs `cargo tarpaulin` and uploads to Codecov. (Excludes `arqonhpo` bindings due to FFI limits).
- **Benchmarks:** Runs `cargo bench` to detect performance regressions.
- **Docs:** Builds the MkDocs site to ensure no broken links or missing plugins.

---

## 🤖 Dependabot Runbook

Dependabot automatically opens PRs to update dependencies.

### 🔄 How to Rebase
If a Dependabot PR is showing red checks because `main` has changed:
1. Open the PR.
2. Comment:
   ```text
   @dependabot rebase
   ```
3. Wait for it to rebuild.

### ❌ Dealing with MSRV Conflicts
Sometimes Dependabot bumps a crate to a version that drops support for our MSRV (e.g., bumping `criterion` to `0.8.1` which needs Rust 1.86).

**Solution:**
1. **Identify:** The CI failure will explicitly say `package requires rustc X.XX`.
2. **Pin:** Explicitly pin the older version in `Cargo.toml`.
   ```toml
   [dev-dependencies]
   criterion = "=0.5.1"  # Pinned for MSRV 1.82 compatibility
   ```
3. **Close:** Manually close the Dependabot PR.

---

## 🚀 Release Process

Releases are automated via `.github/workflows/release.yml`.

### Steps:
1. **Update Version:** Bump version in `Cargo.toml` and run `cargo build` to update `Cargo.lock`.
2. **Commit:** Merge version bump to `main`.
3. **Tag:**
   ```bash
   git tag v0.3.0
   git push origin v0.3.0
   ```
4. **Automation:** GitHub Actions will:
   - Build binaries for Linux, macOS, and Windows.
   - Build Python wheels (manylinux, macos, windows).
   - Generate SLSA Provenance attestation.
   - Generate SBOM (Software Bill of Materials).
   - Create a GitHub Release with artifacts attached.

### Security
* **SLSA Level 3:** We generate provenance for all build artifacts to prevent supply chain attacks.
* **SBOM:** A CycloneDX Software Bill of Materials is generated for every release.

## ✅ Hard-Learned CI/CD Notes

- **Unique release asset names:** Release uploads must have unique basenames. If multiple artifacts are named the same (e.g., `arqonhpo`), `action-gh-release` can fail or overwrite assets.
- **SLSA subjects are required:** The SLSA generator needs `base64-subjects`; generate a `sha256sum` list of artifacts and pass it to the provenance job.
- **Publish after release creation:** If provenance or other jobs upload assets, avoid doing so before the GitHub Release exists. Otherwise uploads can fail.
- **GitHub Packages != PyPI:** Publishing to PyPI does not populate the GitHub Packages tab. You must publish to `pypi.pkg.github.com` separately.
- **GitHub Packages URL:** Use `https://pypi.pkg.github.com/<owner>/` for Python package uploads. `upload.pypi.pkg.github.com` fails TLS verification.
- **Tag triggers matter:** Release/publish workflows trigger on tags. If you fix a workflow, move the tag to the new commit and push the tag.

---

## 🛠 Local Development Commands

Before pushing, run the full checklist below (CI assumes these are clean):

```bash
# 1. Format code
cargo fmt --all

# 2. Catch common mistakes
cargo clippy --workspace --all-targets -- -D warnings

# 3. Run tests
cargo test --workspace

# 4. MSRV check (mirrors CI stable job)
# Run this before merging to catch dependency issues early.
# The `ship` crate is excluded due to heavy transitive deps.
cargo check --workspace --exclude ship

# 5. Run documentation site locally
mkdocs serve
```

## Local Code Coverage Testing

Before pushing, verify test coverage locally to catch gaps before CI reports them. This uses `cargo-llvm-cov` for accurate coverage measurement.

### Setup (one-time)

```bash
# Install cargo-llvm-cov
cargo install cargo-llvm-cov

# Install llvm-tools (required component)
rustup component add llvm-tools-preview
```

### Running Coverage Locally

```bash
# Quick summary (text output)
cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship

# Detailed HTML report (opens in browser)
cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship --html --open

# Show uncovered lines for specific files
cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship --show-missing-lines

# Check only specific crate
cargo llvm-cov -p arqonhpo-cli --show-missing-lines
```

### Coverage Pre-Push Checklist

Before pushing code changes, especially new features:

1. **Run coverage**: `cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship --show-missing-lines`
2. **Check for uncovered lines**: Focus on new/modified files
3. **Add tests for gaps**: Target functions with 0% coverage
4. **Re-run to verify**: Ensure coverage improves
5. **Then push**: `git push origin HEAD`

### Coverage Targets

| Component | Target | Current |
|-----------|--------|---------|
| Core crate | >80% | ~75% |
| CLI crate | >60% | ~45% |
| Hotpath crate | >70% | ~70% |
| Ship crate | >50% | ~40% |

Commit message:

Document CLI install and PyPI note

docs/docs/project/ci_cd.md, after:

# CI/CD Runbook

This guide details the Continuous Integration and Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline for ArqonHPO, managed via GitHub Actions.

## 👋 Quick Reference

| Action | Command / Trigger |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Run Tests Locally** | `cargo test --workspace` |
| **Check MSRV** | `manual check required` (see below) |
| **Fix Formatting** | `cargo fmt --all` |
| **Run Clippy** | `cargo clippy --workspace` |
| **Trigger Dependabot** | Comment `@dependabot rebase` on PR |
| **Cut a Release** | `git tag v0.2.x && git push origin v0.2.x` |

---

## 🏗 Pipeline Architecture

Our pipeline (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) enforces quality gates on every Pull Request and merge to `main`.

### 1. Cross-Platform Rust Matrix
We compile and test on native runners to ensure OS compatibility:
- **Linux** (`ubuntu-latest`)
- **macOS** (`macos-latest`)
- **Windows** (`windows-latest`)

### 2. Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV)
* **Current MSRV:** `1.82.0`
* **Check:** Builds `cargo build` using strict version 1.82 to prevent accidental usage of newer features.
* **Troubleshooting:** If this fails but stable passes, you likely used a new Rust feature or updated a dependency to a version that requires a newer Rust.
    * *Fix:* Downgrade the dependency or pin it (e.g., `criterion = "=0.5.1"`).

### 3. Python Compatibility Matrix
We test bindings against supported Python versions:
- `3.10`
- `3.11`
- `3.12`

### 4. Code Quality & Benchmarks
- **Coverage:** Runs `cargo tarpaulin` and uploads to Codecov. (Excludes `arqonhpo` bindings due to FFI limits).
- **Benchmarks:** Runs `cargo bench` to detect performance regressions.
- **Docs:** Builds the MkDocs site to ensure no broken links or missing plugins.

---

## 🤖 Dependabot Runbook

Dependabot automatically opens PRs to update dependencies.

### 🔄 How to Rebase
If a Dependabot PR is showing red checks because `main` has changed:
1. Open the PR.
2. Comment:
   ```text
   @dependabot rebase
   ```
3. Wait for it to rebuild.

### ❌ Dealing with MSRV Conflicts
Sometimes Dependabot bumps a crate to a version that drops support for our MSRV (e.g., bumping `criterion` to `0.8.1` which needs Rust 1.86).

**Solution:**
1. **Identify:** The CI failure will explicitly say `package requires rustc X.XX`.
2. **Pin:** Explicitly pin the older version in `Cargo.toml`.
   ```toml
   [dev-dependencies]
   criterion = "=0.5.1"  # Pinned for MSRV 1.82 compatibility
   ```
3. **Close:** Manually close the Dependabot PR.

---

## 🚀 Release Process

Releases are automated via `.github/workflows/release.yml`.

### Steps:
1. **Update Version:** Bump version in `Cargo.toml` and run `cargo build` to update `Cargo.lock`.
2. **Commit:** Merge version bump to `main`.
3. **Tag:**
   ```bash
   git tag v0.3.0
   git push origin v0.3.0
   ```
4. **Automation:** GitHub Actions will:
   - Build binaries for Linux, macOS, and Windows.
   - Build Python wheels (manylinux, macos, windows).
   - Generate SLSA Provenance attestation.
   - Generate SBOM (Software Bill of Materials).
   - Create a GitHub Release with artifacts attached.

### Security
* **SLSA Level 3:** We generate provenance for all build artifacts to prevent supply chain attacks.
* **SBOM:** A CycloneDX Software Bill of Materials is generated for every release.

## ✅ Hard-Learned CI/CD Notes

- **Unique release asset names:** Release uploads must have unique basenames. If multiple artifacts are named the same (e.g., `arqonhpo`), `action-gh-release` can fail or overwrite assets.
- **SLSA subjects are required:** The SLSA generator needs `base64-subjects`; generate a `sha256sum` list of artifacts and pass it to the provenance job.
- **Publish after release creation:** If provenance or other jobs upload assets, avoid doing so before the GitHub Release exists. Otherwise uploads can fail.
- **PyPI is the canonical channel:** Publish Python packages to PyPI for the standard install path.
- **Tag triggers matter:** Release/publish workflows trigger on tags. If you fix a workflow, move the tag to the new commit and push the tag.

---

## 🛠 Local Development Commands

Before pushing, run the full checklist below (CI assumes these are clean):

```bash
# 1. Format code
cargo fmt --all

# 2. Catch common mistakes
cargo clippy --workspace --all-targets -- -D warnings

# 3. Run tests
cargo test --workspace

# 4. MSRV check (mirrors CI stable job)
# Run this before merging to catch dependency issues early.
# The `ship` crate is excluded due to heavy transitive deps.
cargo check --workspace --exclude ship

# 5. Run documentation site locally
mkdocs serve
```

## Local Code Coverage Testing

Before pushing, verify test coverage locally to catch gaps before CI reports them. This uses `cargo-llvm-cov` for accurate coverage measurement.

### Setup (one-time)

```bash
# Install cargo-llvm-cov
cargo install cargo-llvm-cov

# Install llvm-tools (required component)
rustup component add llvm-tools-preview
```

### Running Coverage Locally

```bash
# Quick summary (text output)
cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship

# Detailed HTML report (opens in browser)
cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship --html --open

# Show uncovered lines for specific files
cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship --show-missing-lines

# Check only specific crate
cargo llvm-cov -p arqonhpo-cli --show-missing-lines
```

### Coverage Pre-Push Checklist

Before pushing code changes, especially new features:

1. **Run coverage**: `cargo llvm-cov --workspace --exclude ship --show-missing-lines`
2. **Check for uncovered lines**: Focus on new/modified files
3. **Add tests for gaps**: Target functions with 0% coverage
4. **Re-run to verify**: Ensure coverage improves
5. **Then push**: `git push origin HEAD`

### Coverage Targets

| Component | Target | Current |
|-----------|--------|---------|
| Core crate | >80% | ~75% |
| CLI crate | >60% | ~45% |
| Hotpath crate | >70% | ~70% |
| Ship crate | >50% | ~40% |
